docs/api-reference/pots.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Pots API'
description: 'Manage savings pots and transfers'
---

## Overview

The `PotsAPI` provides methods to manage Monzo savings pots, including listing pots, depositing money, and withdrawing funds. All pot operations are accessed through the `client.pots` property.

## Methods

### list()

List all savings pots for the authenticated user.

```python
def list(self) -> list[Pot]:
    """List all pots owned by the current user."""
```

**Returns**: `list[Pot]` - List of pot objects

**Example**:
```python
from monzoh import MonzoClient

client = MonzoClient()

# Get all pots
pots = client.pots.list()
print(f"Found {len(pots)} pots")

for pot in pots:
    if pot.deleted:
        continue  # Skip deleted pots
        
    balance = pot.balance / 100
    print(f"🐷 {pot.name}: £{balance:.2f}")
    
    if pot.goal_amount:
        goal = pot.goal_amount / 100
        progress = (balance / goal) * 100
        print(f"   🎯 Goal: £{goal:.2f} ({progress:.1f}% complete)")
    
    if pot.round_up:
        print("   🔄 Round-up enabled")
```

### deposit()

Deposit money into a savings pot.

```python
def deposit(
    self,
    pot_id: str,
    account_id: str,
    amount: int
) -> dict:
    """Deposit money into a pot."""
```

**Parameters**:
- `pot_id`: The unique pot identifier
- `account_id`: The source account identifier
- `amount`: Amount to deposit in pence

**Returns**: `dict` - Deposit confirmation details

**Example**:
```python
# Get accounts and pots
accounts = client.accounts.list()
pots = client.pots.list()

current_account = accounts[0]
savings_pot = next(pot for pot in pots if not pot.deleted)

# Deposit £25.00 into the pot
result = client.pots.deposit(
    pot_id=savings_pot.id,
    account_id=current_account.id,
    amount=2500  # £25.00 in pence
)

print(f"✅ Deposited £25.00 into {savings_pot.name}")
```

### withdraw()

Withdraw money from a savings pot.

```python
def withdraw(
    self,
    pot_id: str,
    account_id: str,
    amount: int
) -> dict:
    """Withdraw money from a pot."""
```

**Parameters**:
- `pot_id`: The unique pot identifier  
- `account_id`: The destination account identifier
- `amount`: Amount to withdraw in pence

**Returns**: `dict` - Withdrawal confirmation details

**Example**:
```python
# Withdraw £10.00 from the pot
result = client.pots.withdraw(
    pot_id=savings_pot.id,
    account_id=current_account.id,
    amount=1000  # £10.00 in pence
)

print(f"✅ Withdrew £10.00 from {savings_pot.name}")
```

## Pot Management Examples

### Automated Savings

Implement automated savings rules:

```python
from decimal import Decimal
from datetime import datetime, timedelta

class AutoSavings:
    def __init__(self):
        self.client = MonzoClient()
        self.accounts = self.client.accounts.list()
        self.current_account = self.accounts[0]
        self.pots = self.client.pots.list()
        self.active_pots = [p for p in self.pots if not p.deleted]
    
    def round_up_savings(self, max_amount_pounds=50):
        """Implement round-up savings on recent transactions."""
        
        # Get recent transactions
        transactions = self.client.transactions.list(
            account_id=self.current_account.id,
            limit=20
        )
        
        total_roundup = Decimal('0')
        roundup_transactions = []
        
        for txn in transactions:
            if txn.amount < 0:  # Spending transaction
                amount = abs(txn.amount) / 100
                rounded = int(amount) + 1
                roundup = Decimal(str(rounded)) - Decimal(str(amount))
                
                if roundup > 0:
                    total_roundup += roundup
                    roundup_transactions.append({
                        'description': txn.description,
                        'amount': amount,
                        'roundup': float(roundup)
                    })
        
        # Apply maximum limit
        if total_roundup > max_amount_pounds:
            total_roundup = Decimal(str(max_amount_pounds))
        
        print(f"💰 Round-up savings opportunity: £{total_roundup:.2f}")
        print(f"📊 From {len(roundup_transactions)} transactions")
        
        if total_roundup > 0 and self.active_pots:
            # Use first available pot
            savings_pot = self.active_pots[0]
            amount_pence = int(total_roundup * 100)
            
            try:
                result = self.client.pots.deposit(
                    pot_id=savings_pot.id,
                    account_id=self.current_account.id,
                    amount=amount_pence
                )
                
                print(f"✅ Deposited £{total_roundup:.2f} into {savings_pot.name}")
                return True
                
            except Exception as e:
                print(f"❌ Failed to deposit: {e}")
                return False
        
        return False
    
    def goal_based_saving(self, target_weekly_amount=20):
        """Save a target amount weekly towards goals."""
        
        goal_pots = [p for p in self.active_pots if p.goal_amount and p.goal_amount > 0]
        
        if not goal_pots:
            print("No pots with goals found")
            return
        
        print(f"🎯 Goal-based savings (£{target_weekly_amount}/week)")
        print("="*50)
        
        for pot in goal_pots:
            balance = pot.balance / 100
            goal = pot.goal_amount / 100
            remaining = goal - balance
            
            print(f"\n🐷 {pot.name}")
            print(f"   Current: £{balance:.2f}")
            print(f"   Goal: £{goal:.2f}")
            print(f"   Remaining: £{remaining:.2f}")
            
            if remaining > 0:
                # Calculate weekly contribution needed
                # Assume 12 weeks to goal for simplicity
                weeks_remaining = 12
                weekly_needed = remaining / weeks_remaining
                
                # Use the smaller of target amount or amount needed
                weekly_contribution = min(target_weekly_amount, weekly_needed)
                
                if weekly_contribution >= 1:  # Minimum £1
                    amount_pence = int(weekly_contribution * 100)
                    
                    try:
                        result = self.client.pots.deposit(
                            pot_id=pot.id,
                            account_id=self.current_account.id,
                            amount=amount_pence
                        )
                        
                        new_balance = balance + weekly_contribution
                        progress = (new_balance / goal) * 100
                        
                        print(f"   ✅ Deposited £{weekly_contribution:.2f}")
                        print(f"   📊 Progress: {progress:.1f}%")
                        
                        if progress >= 100:
                            print("   🎉 Goal achieved!")
                            
                    except Exception as e:
                        print(f"   ❌ Deposit failed: {e}")
                else:
                    print("   ℹ️ Goal nearly complete, no deposit needed")
            else:
                print("   🎉 Goal already achieved!")
    
    def emergency_fund_check(self, target_months=6):
        """Check emergency fund status and suggest contributions."""
        
        # Calculate monthly expenses from recent transactions
        since = datetime.now() - timedelta(days=30)
        transactions = self.client.transactions.list(
            account_id=self.current_account.id,
            since=since,
            limit=200
        )
        
        monthly_expenses = sum(
            abs(txn.amount) for txn in transactions 
            if txn.amount < 0 and txn.category not in ['transfers', 'savings']
        ) / 100
        
        target_emergency_fund = monthly_expenses * target_months
        
        # Find emergency fund pot (by name)
        emergency_pot = next(
            (p for p in self.active_pots if 'emergency' in p.name.lower()),
            None
        )
        
        print(f"🚨 Emergency Fund Analysis")
        print("="*30)
        print(f"Monthly expenses: £{monthly_expenses:.2f}")
        print(f"Target fund ({target_months} months): £{target_emergency_fund:.2f}")
        
        if emergency_pot:
            current_fund = emergency_pot.balance / 100
            shortfall = target_emergency_fund - current_fund
            
            print(f"Current fund: £{current_fund:.2f}")
            print(f"Shortfall: £{shortfall:.2f}")
            
            if shortfall > 0:
                # Suggest monthly contribution
                monthly_contribution = shortfall / 12  # Spread over 12 months
                print(f"💡 Suggested monthly contribution: £{monthly_contribution:.2f}")
                
                return {
                    'pot': emergency_pot,
                    'shortfall': shortfall,
                    'suggested_monthly': monthly_contribution
                }
        else:
            print("❌ No emergency fund pot found")
            print("💡 Consider creating an emergency fund pot")
            
        return None

# Usage
auto_saver = AutoSavings()

# Run automated savings
auto_saver.round_up_savings(max_amount_pounds=25)
auto_saver.goal_based_saving(target_weekly_amount=20)
emergency_status = auto_saver.emergency_fund_check(target_months=6)
```

### Pot Performance Tracking

Track savings progress over time:

```python
import json
from datetime import datetime, timedelta

class PotTracker:
    def __init__(self, history_file="pot_history.json"):
        self.client = MonzoClient()
        self.history_file = history_file
        self.load_history()
    
    def load_history(self):
        """Load historical pot data."""
        try:
            with open(self.history_file, 'r') as f:
                self.history = json.load(f)
        except FileNotFoundError:
            self.history = {}
    
    def save_history(self):
        """Save historical pot data."""
        with open(self.history_file, 'w') as f:
            json.dump(self.history, f, indent=2)
    
    def record_snapshot(self):
        """Record current pot balances."""
        pots = self.client.pots.list()
        timestamp = datetime.now().isoformat()
        
        snapshot = {}
        for pot in pots:
            if not pot.deleted:
                snapshot[pot.id] = {
                    'name': pot.name,
                    'balance': pot.balance,
                    'goal': pot.goal_amount
                }
        
        self.history[timestamp] = snapshot
        self.save_history()
        
        print(f"📸 Recorded snapshot of {len(snapshot)} pots")
    
    def analyze_growth(self, days=30):
        """Analyze pot growth over the last N days."""
        
        if len(self.history) < 2:
            print("Need at least 2 snapshots to analyze growth")
            return
        
        # Get timestamps within the date range
        cutoff_date = datetime.now() - timedelta(days=days)
        recent_timestamps = [
            ts for ts in self.history.keys()
            if datetime.fromisoformat(ts) >= cutoff_date
        ]
        
        if len(recent_timestamps) < 2:
            print(f"Need at least 2 snapshots in the last {days} days")
            return
        
        # Compare earliest and latest in range
        earliest_ts = min(recent_timestamps)
        latest_ts = max(recent_timestamps)
        
        earliest_data = self.history[earliest_ts]
        latest_data = self.history[latest_ts]
        
        print(f"💹 Pot Growth Analysis ({days} days)")
        print("="*40)
        print(f"From: {earliest_ts[:10]}")
        print(f"To: {latest_ts[:10]}")
        print()
        
        total_growth = 0
        
        for pot_id in latest_data:
            if pot_id in earliest_data:
                pot_name = latest_data[pot_id]['name']
                
                old_balance = earliest_data[pot_id]['balance'] / 100
                new_balance = latest_data[pot_id]['balance'] / 100
                growth = new_balance - old_balance
                
                total_growth += growth
                
                if growth != 0:
                    print(f"🐷 {pot_name}")
                    print(f"   From: £{old_balance:.2f}")
                    print(f"   To: £{new_balance:.2f}")
                    print(f"   Growth: £{growth:+.2f}")
                    
                    if latest_data[pot_id]['goal']:
                        goal = latest_data[pot_id]['goal'] / 100
                        progress = (new_balance / goal) * 100
                        print(f"   Goal progress: {progress:.1f}%")
                    print()
        
        print(f"📊 Total portfolio growth: £{total_growth:+.2f}")
        
        if total_growth > 0:
            daily_average = total_growth / days
            print(f"📅 Daily average: £{daily_average:.2f}")
    
    def savings_rate_analysis(self):
        """Analyze savings rate based on income vs pot deposits."""
        
        # Get account transactions to estimate income
        accounts = self.client.accounts.list()
        current_account = accounts[0]
        
        # Get last month's transactions
        since = datetime.now() - timedelta(days=30)
        transactions = self.client.transactions.list(
            account_id=current_account.id,
            since=since,
            limit=200
        )
        
        # Estimate income (positive transactions, excluding transfers)
        income_transactions = [
            txn for txn in transactions
            if txn.amount > 0 and txn.category not in ['transfers', 'internal_transfer']
        ]
        
        total_income = sum(txn.amount for txn in income_transactions) / 100
        
        # Calculate pot deposits (negative current account transactions to pots)
        pot_deposits = [
            txn for txn in transactions
            if txn.amount < 0 and 'pot' in txn.description.lower()
        ]
        
        total_saved = sum(abs(txn.amount) for txn in pot_deposits) / 100
        
        if total_income > 0:
            savings_rate = (total_saved / total_income) * 100
            
            print(f"💰 Savings Rate Analysis (30 days)")
            print("="*35)
            print(f"Estimated income: £{total_income:.2f}")
            print(f"Amount saved to pots: £{total_saved:.2f}")
            print(f"Savings rate: {savings_rate:.1f}%")
            
            # Provide feedback
            if savings_rate >= 20:
                print("🌟 Excellent savings rate!")
            elif savings_rate >= 10:
                print("👍 Good savings rate")
            elif savings_rate >= 5:
                print("📈 Room for improvement")
            else:
                print("💡 Consider increasing your savings rate")
        else:
            print("Unable to calculate savings rate - no income detected")

# Usage
tracker = PotTracker()

# Record regular snapshots (run daily/weekly)
tracker.record_snapshot()

# Analyze growth trends
tracker.analyze_growth(days=30)
tracker.savings_rate_analysis()
```

### Smart Pot Allocations

Automatically allocate money across different pots based on priorities:

```python
class SmartPotAllocator:
    def __init__(self):
        self.client = MonzoClient()
        self.accounts = self.client.accounts.list()
        self.current_account = self.accounts[0]
        self.pots = [p for p in self.client.pots.list() if not p.deleted]
    
    def allocate_surplus(self, target_current_balance=500):
        """Allocate surplus money above target current account balance."""
        
        balance = self.client.accounts.get_balance(
            account_id=self.current_account.id
        )
        
        current_balance = balance.balance / 100
        surplus = current_balance - target_current_balance
        
        print(f"💳 Current account balance: £{current_balance:.2f}")
        print(f"🎯 Target balance: £{target_current_balance:.2f}")
        print(f"💰 Surplus available: £{surplus:.2f}")
        
        if surplus <= 0:
            print("No surplus to allocate")
            return
        
        # Define allocation priorities and percentages
        allocation_rules = [
            {'name_contains': 'emergency', 'priority': 1, 'max_percentage': 0.5},
            {'name_contains': 'holiday', 'priority': 2, 'max_percentage': 0.3},
            {'name_contains': 'house', 'priority': 3, 'max_percentage': 0.4},
            {'name_contains': 'car', 'priority': 4, 'max_percentage': 0.2},
        ]
        
        # Find matching pots and sort by priority
        eligible_pots = []
        
        for rule in allocation_rules:
            matching_pots = [
                p for p in self.pots
                if rule['name_contains'].lower() in p.name.lower()
            ]
            
            for pot in matching_pots:
                eligible_pots.append({
                    'pot': pot,
                    'priority': rule['priority'],
                    'max_percentage': rule['max_percentage']
                })
        
        # Sort by priority
        eligible_pots.sort(key=lambda x: x['priority'])
        
        print(f"\n📋 Allocation Plan:")
        print("-" * 30)
        
        remaining_surplus = surplus
        
        for allocation in eligible_pots:
            pot = allocation['pot']
            max_percentage = allocation['max_percentage']
            
            # Calculate allocation amount
            max_allocation = surplus * max_percentage
            allocation_amount = min(remaining_surplus, max_allocation)
            
            if allocation_amount >= 1:  # Minimum £1
                print(f"🐷 {pot.name}: £{allocation_amount:.2f}")
                
                # Perform the transfer
                try:
                    amount_pence = int(allocation_amount * 100)
                    result = self.client.pots.deposit(
                        pot_id=pot.id,
                        account_id=self.current_account.id,
                        amount=amount_pence
                    )
                    
                    remaining_surplus -= allocation_amount
                    print(f"   ✅ Transferred successfully")
                    
                except Exception as e:
                    print(f"   ❌ Transfer failed: {e}")
            
            if remaining_surplus <= 1:
                break
        
        print(f"\n📊 Remaining surplus: £{remaining_surplus:.2f}")
        
        if remaining_surplus > 1:
            print("💡 Consider creating additional savings pots for remaining surplus")

# Usage
allocator = SmartPotAllocator()
allocator.allocate_surplus(target_current_balance=500)
```

## Best Practices

1. **Check pot status**: Always verify a pot is not deleted before performing operations
2. **Handle minimum amounts**: Monzo may have minimum transfer amounts (typically £1)
3. **Error handling**: Wrap pot operations in try/catch blocks for robust error handling
4. **Balance validation**: Check account balance before attempting large withdrawals
5. **Goal tracking**: Use pot goals to implement automatic savings strategies

The Pots API enables powerful savings automation and financial goal tracking capabilities within your Monzo account management applications.

Commit message:

Use major units for pot transactions

docs/api-reference/pots.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Pots API'
description: 'Manage savings pots and transfers'
---

## Overview

The `PotsAPI` provides methods to manage Monzo savings pots, including listing pots, depositing money, and withdrawing funds. All pot operations are accessed through the `client.pots` property.

## Methods

### list()

List all savings pots for the authenticated user.

```python
def list(self) -> list[Pot]:
    """List all pots owned by the current user."""
```

**Returns**: `list[Pot]` - List of pot objects

**Example**:
```python
from monzoh import MonzoClient

client = MonzoClient()

# Get all pots
pots = client.pots.list()
print(f"Found {len(pots)} pots")

for pot in pots:
    if pot.deleted:
        continue  # Skip deleted pots
        
    balance = pot.balance / 100
    print(f"🐷 {pot.name}: £{balance:.2f}")
    
    if pot.goal_amount:
        goal = pot.goal_amount / 100
        progress = (balance / goal) * 100
        print(f"   🎯 Goal: £{goal:.2f} ({progress:.1f}% complete)")
    
    if pot.round_up:
        print("   🔄 Round-up enabled")
```

### deposit()

Deposit money into a savings pot.

```python
def deposit(
    self,
    pot_id: str,
    account_id: str,
    amount: int | float | Decimal | str
) -> dict:
    """Deposit money into a pot."""
```

**Parameters**:
- `pot_id`: The unique pot identifier
- `account_id`: The source account identifier
- `amount`: Amount to deposit in major units (e.g., 1.50 for £1.50)

**Returns**: `dict` - Deposit confirmation details

**Example**:
```python
# Get accounts and pots
accounts = client.accounts.list()
pots = client.pots.list()

current_account = accounts[0]
savings_pot = next(pot for pot in pots if not pot.deleted)

# Deposit £25.00 into the pot
result = client.pots.deposit(
    pot_id=savings_pot.id,
    account_id=current_account.id,
    amount=25.00
)

print(f"✅ Deposited £25.00 into {savings_pot.name}")
```

### withdraw()

Withdraw money from a savings pot.

```python
def withdraw(
    self,
    pot_id: str,
    account_id: str,
    amount: int | float | Decimal | str
) -> dict:
    """Withdraw money from a pot."""
```

**Parameters**:
- `pot_id`: The unique pot identifier  
- `account_id`: The destination account identifier
- `amount`: Amount to withdraw in major units (e.g., 1.50 for £1.50)

**Returns**: `dict` - Withdrawal confirmation details

**Example**:
```python
# Withdraw £10.00 from the pot
result = client.pots.withdraw(
    pot_id=savings_pot.id,
    account_id=current_account.id,
    amount=10.00
)

print(f"✅ Withdrew £10.00 from {savings_pot.name}")
```

## Pot Management Examples

### Automated Savings

Implement automated savings rules:

```python
from decimal import Decimal
from datetime import datetime, timedelta

class AutoSavings:
    def __init__(self):
        self.client = MonzoClient()
        self.accounts = self.client.accounts.list()
        self.current_account = self.accounts[0]
        self.pots = self.client.pots.list()
        self.active_pots = [p for p in self.pots if not p.deleted]
    
    def round_up_savings(self, max_amount_pounds=50):
        """Implement round-up savings on recent transactions."""
        
        # Get recent transactions
        transactions = self.client.transactions.list(
            account_id=self.current_account.id,
            limit=20
        )
        
        total_roundup = Decimal('0')
        roundup_transactions = []
        
        for txn in transactions:
            if txn.amount < 0:  # Spending transaction
                amount = abs(txn.amount) / 100
                rounded = int(amount) + 1
                roundup = Decimal(str(rounded)) - Decimal(str(amount))
                
                if roundup > 0:
                    total_roundup += roundup
                    roundup_transactions.append({
                        'description': txn.description,
                        'amount': amount,
                        'roundup': float(roundup)
                    })
        
        # Apply maximum limit
        if total_roundup > max_amount_pounds:
            total_roundup = Decimal(str(max_amount_pounds))
        
        print(f"💰 Round-up savings opportunity: £{total_roundup:.2f}")
        print(f"📊 From {len(roundup_transactions)} transactions")
        
        if total_roundup > 0 and self.active_pots:
            # Use first available pot
            savings_pot = self.active_pots[0]
            
            try:
                result = self.client.pots.deposit(
                    pot_id=savings_pot.id,
                    account_id=self.current_account.id,
                    amount=float(total_roundup)
                )
                
                print(f"✅ Deposited £{total_roundup:.2f} into {savings_pot.name}")
                return True
                
            except Exception as e:
                print(f"❌ Failed to deposit: {e}")
                return False
        
        return False
    
    def goal_based_saving(self, target_weekly_amount=20):
        """Save a target amount weekly towards goals."""
        
        goal_pots = [p for p in self.active_pots if p.goal_amount and p.goal_amount > 0]
        
        if not goal_pots:
            print("No pots with goals found")
            return
        
        print(f"🎯 Goal-based savings (£{target_weekly_amount}/week)")
        print("="*50)
        
        for pot in goal_pots:
            balance = pot.balance / 100
            goal = pot.goal_amount / 100
            remaining = goal - balance
            
            print(f"\n🐷 {pot.name}")
            print(f"   Current: £{balance:.2f}")
            print(f"   Goal: £{goal:.2f}")
            print(f"   Remaining: £{remaining:.2f}")
            
            if remaining > 0:
                # Calculate weekly contribution needed
                # Assume 12 weeks to goal for simplicity
                weeks_remaining = 12
                weekly_needed = remaining / weeks_remaining
                
                # Use the smaller of target amount or amount needed
                weekly_contribution = min(target_weekly_amount, weekly_needed)
                
                if weekly_contribution >= 1:  # Minimum £1
                    try:
                        result = self.client.pots.deposit(
                            pot_id=pot.id,
                            account_id=self.current_account.id,
                            amount=weekly_contribution
                        )
                        
                        new_balance = balance + weekly_contribution
                        progress = (new_balance / goal) * 100
                        
                        print(f"   ✅ Deposited £{weekly_contribution:.2f}")
                        print(f"   📊 Progress: {progress:.1f}%")
                        
                        if progress >= 100:
                            print("   🎉 Goal achieved!")
                            
                    except Exception as e:
                        print(f"   ❌ Deposit failed: {e}")
                else:
                    print("   ℹ️ Goal nearly complete, no deposit needed")
            else:
                print("   🎉 Goal already achieved!")
    
    def emergency_fund_check(self, target_months=6):
        """Check emergency fund status and suggest contributions."""
        
        # Calculate monthly expenses from recent transactions
        since = datetime.now() - timedelta(days=30)
        transactions = self.client.transactions.list(
            account_id=self.current_account.id,
            since=since,
            limit=200
        )
        
        monthly_expenses = sum(
            abs(txn.amount) for txn in transactions 
            if txn.amount < 0 and txn.category not in ['transfers', 'savings']
        ) / 100
        
        target_emergency_fund = monthly_expenses * target_months
        
        # Find emergency fund pot (by name)
        emergency_pot = next(
            (p for p in self.active_pots if 'emergency' in p.name.lower()),
            None
        )
        
        print(f"🚨 Emergency Fund Analysis")
        print("="*30)
        print(f"Monthly expenses: £{monthly_expenses:.2f}")
        print(f"Target fund ({target_months} months): £{target_emergency_fund:.2f}")
        
        if emergency_pot:
            current_fund = emergency_pot.balance / 100
            shortfall = target_emergency_fund - current_fund
            
            print(f"Current fund: £{current_fund:.2f}")
            print(f"Shortfall: £{shortfall:.2f}")
            
            if shortfall > 0:
                # Suggest monthly contribution
                monthly_contribution = shortfall / 12  # Spread over 12 months
                print(f"💡 Suggested monthly contribution: £{monthly_contribution:.2f}")
                
                return {
                    'pot': emergency_pot,
                    'shortfall': shortfall,
                    'suggested_monthly': monthly_contribution
                }
        else:
            print("❌ No emergency fund pot found")
            print("💡 Consider creating an emergency fund pot")
            
        return None

# Usage
auto_saver = AutoSavings()

# Run automated savings
auto_saver.round_up_savings(max_amount_pounds=25)
auto_saver.goal_based_saving(target_weekly_amount=20)
emergency_status = auto_saver.emergency_fund_check(target_months=6)
```

### Pot Performance Tracking

Track savings progress over time:

```python
import json
from datetime import datetime, timedelta

class PotTracker:
    def __init__(self, history_file="pot_history.json"):
        self.client = MonzoClient()
        self.history_file = history_file
        self.load_history()
    
    def load_history(self):
        """Load historical pot data."""
        try:
            with open(self.history_file, 'r') as f:
                self.history = json.load(f)
        except FileNotFoundError:
            self.history = {}
    
    def save_history(self):
        """Save historical pot data."""
        with open(self.history_file, 'w') as f:
            json.dump(self.history, f, indent=2)
    
    def record_snapshot(self):
        """Record current pot balances."""
        pots = self.client.pots.list()
        timestamp = datetime.now().isoformat()
        
        snapshot = {}
        for pot in pots:
            if not pot.deleted:
                snapshot[pot.id] = {
                    'name': pot.name,
                    'balance': pot.balance,
                    'goal': pot.goal_amount
                }
        
        self.history[timestamp] = snapshot
        self.save_history()
        
        print(f"📸 Recorded snapshot of {len(snapshot)} pots")
    
    def analyze_growth(self, days=30):
        """Analyze pot growth over the last N days."""
        
        if len(self.history) < 2:
            print("Need at least 2 snapshots to analyze growth")
            return
        
        # Get timestamps within the date range
        cutoff_date = datetime.now() - timedelta(days=days)
        recent_timestamps = [
            ts for ts in self.history.keys()
            if datetime.fromisoformat(ts) >= cutoff_date
        ]
        
        if len(recent_timestamps) < 2:
            print(f"Need at least 2 snapshots in the last {days} days")
            return
        
        # Compare earliest and latest in range
        earliest_ts = min(recent_timestamps)
        latest_ts = max(recent_timestamps)
        
        earliest_data = self.history[earliest_ts]
        latest_data = self.history[latest_ts]
        
        print(f"💹 Pot Growth Analysis ({days} days)")
        print("="*40)
        print(f"From: {earliest_ts[:10]}")
        print(f"To: {latest_ts[:10]}")
        print()
        
        total_growth = 0
        
        for pot_id in latest_data:
            if pot_id in earliest_data:
                pot_name = latest_data[pot_id]['name']
                
                old_balance = earliest_data[pot_id]['balance'] / 100
                new_balance = latest_data[pot_id]['balance'] / 100
                growth = new_balance - old_balance
                
                total_growth += growth
                
                if growth != 0:
                    print(f"🐷 {pot_name}")
                    print(f"   From: £{old_balance:.2f}")
                    print(f"   To: £{new_balance:.2f}")
                    print(f"   Growth: £{growth:+.2f}")
                    
                    if latest_data[pot_id]['goal']:
                        goal = latest_data[pot_id]['goal'] / 100
                        progress = (new_balance / goal) * 100
                        print(f"   Goal progress: {progress:.1f}%")
                    print()
        
        print(f"📊 Total portfolio growth: £{total_growth:+.2f}")
        
        if total_growth > 0:
            daily_average = total_growth / days
            print(f"📅 Daily average: £{daily_average:.2f}")
    
    def savings_rate_analysis(self):
        """Analyze savings rate based on income vs pot deposits."""
        
        # Get account transactions to estimate income
        accounts = self.client.accounts.list()
        current_account = accounts[0]
        
        # Get last month's transactions
        since = datetime.now() - timedelta(days=30)
        transactions = self.client.transactions.list(
            account_id=current_account.id,
            since=since,
            limit=200
        )
        
        # Estimate income (positive transactions, excluding transfers)
        income_transactions = [
            txn for txn in transactions
            if txn.amount > 0 and txn.category not in ['transfers', 'internal_transfer']
        ]
        
        total_income = sum(txn.amount for txn in income_transactions) / 100
        
        # Calculate pot deposits (negative current account transactions to pots)
        pot_deposits = [
            txn for txn in transactions
            if txn.amount < 0 and 'pot' in txn.description.lower()
        ]
        
        total_saved = sum(abs(txn.amount) for txn in pot_deposits) / 100
        
        if total_income > 0:
            savings_rate = (total_saved / total_income) * 100
            
            print(f"💰 Savings Rate Analysis (30 days)")
            print("="*35)
            print(f"Estimated income: £{total_income:.2f}")
            print(f"Amount saved to pots: £{total_saved:.2f}")
            print(f"Savings rate: {savings_rate:.1f}%")
            
            # Provide feedback
            if savings_rate >= 20:
                print("🌟 Excellent savings rate!")
            elif savings_rate >= 10:
                print("👍 Good savings rate")
            elif savings_rate >= 5:
                print("📈 Room for improvement")
            else:
                print("💡 Consider increasing your savings rate")
        else:
            print("Unable to calculate savings rate - no income detected")

# Usage
tracker = PotTracker()

# Record regular snapshots (run daily/weekly)
tracker.record_snapshot()

# Analyze growth trends
tracker.analyze_growth(days=30)
tracker.savings_rate_analysis()
```

### Smart Pot Allocations

Automatically allocate money across different pots based on priorities:

```python
class SmartPotAllocator:
    def __init__(self):
        self.client = MonzoClient()
        self.accounts = self.client.accounts.list()
        self.current_account = self.accounts[0]
        self.pots = [p for p in self.client.pots.list() if not p.deleted]
    
    def allocate_surplus(self, target_current_balance=500):
        """Allocate surplus money above target current account balance."""
        
        balance = self.client.accounts.get_balance(
            account_id=self.current_account.id
        )
        
        current_balance = balance.balance / 100
        surplus = current_balance - target_current_balance
        
        print(f"💳 Current account balance: £{current_balance:.2f}")
        print(f"🎯 Target balance: £{target_current_balance:.2f}")
        print(f"💰 Surplus available: £{surplus:.2f}")
        
        if surplus <= 0:
            print("No surplus to allocate")
            return
        
        # Define allocation priorities and percentages
        allocation_rules = [
            {'name_contains': 'emergency', 'priority': 1, 'max_percentage': 0.5},
            {'name_contains': 'holiday', 'priority': 2, 'max_percentage': 0.3},
            {'name_contains': 'house', 'priority': 3, 'max_percentage': 0.4},
            {'name_contains': 'car', 'priority': 4, 'max_percentage': 0.2},
        ]
        
        # Find matching pots and sort by priority
        eligible_pots = []
        
        for rule in allocation_rules:
            matching_pots = [
                p for p in self.pots
                if rule['name_contains'].lower() in p.name.lower()
            ]
            
            for pot in matching_pots:
                eligible_pots.append({
                    'pot': pot,
                    'priority': rule['priority'],
                    'max_percentage': rule['max_percentage']
                })
        
        # Sort by priority
        eligible_pots.sort(key=lambda x: x['priority'])
        
        print(f"\n📋 Allocation Plan:")
        print("-" * 30)
        
        remaining_surplus = surplus
        
        for allocation in eligible_pots:
            pot = allocation['pot']
            max_percentage = allocation['max_percentage']
            
            # Calculate allocation amount
            max_allocation = surplus * max_percentage
            allocation_amount = min(remaining_surplus, max_allocation)
            
            if allocation_amount >= 1:  # Minimum £1
                print(f"🐷 {pot.name}: £{allocation_amount:.2f}")
                
                # Perform the transfer
                try:
                    result = self.client.pots.deposit(
                        pot_id=pot.id,
                        account_id=self.current_account.id,
                        amount=allocation_amount
                    )
                    
                    remaining_surplus -= allocation_amount
                    print(f"   ✅ Transferred successfully")
                    
                except Exception as e:
                    print(f"   ❌ Transfer failed: {e}")
            
            if remaining_surplus <= 1:
                break
        
        print(f"\n📊 Remaining surplus: £{remaining_surplus:.2f}")
        
        if remaining_surplus > 1:
            print("💡 Consider creating additional savings pots for remaining surplus")

# Usage
allocator = SmartPotAllocator()
allocator.allocate_surplus(target_current_balance=500)
```

## Best Practices

1. **Check pot status**: Always verify a pot is not deleted before performing operations
2. **Handle minimum amounts**: Monzo may have minimum transfer amounts (typically £1)
3. **Error handling**: Wrap pot operations in try/catch blocks for robust error handling
4. **Balance validation**: Check account balance before attempting large withdrawals
5. **Goal tracking**: Use pot goals to implement automatic savings strategies

The Pots API enables powerful savings automation and financial goal tracking capabilities within your Monzo account management applications.
